What is a Passport Seva Kendra (PSK)?
A:Passport Seva Kendras are extended arms of Passport Offices and render front-end services related to passport issuance. These Kendras cover functionalities from token issuance to granting of application for passport issue/re-issue and other services.Passport Office (PO)
What is a Passport Office (PO)?
A:	Passport Offices (PO) are vested with the authority to issue passports, besides revocation and impounding and exercise control over the PSK(s) under them. They handle all back-end functions required for processing all passport applications. The POs are responsible for (i) printing (ii) lamination (iii) dispatch of Passports,(iv) liaison with MEA Hqs, state /UT admn and police, (v) PVR review, (vi) besides attending to (i) establishment matters, (ii) legal cases, (iii) RTI cases and (iv) financial matters.
What are the various locations where I can submit my application for obtaining a passport?
A:	You can submit Passport Application Form Online.
What are the various channels through which I can apply for Police Clearance Certificate (PCC)?
A:	For Police Clearance Certificate (PCC) you need to fill the PCC Form online via e-Form Submission (preferred) or via Online Form Submission. For submitting your PCC application online, you need to register yourself as a user on the website(www.passportindia.gov.in). To create your user account, please click on "Register" link on Home page.
Where can I submit the diplomatic /official passport application form?
A:	Normally applications for diplomatic and official passports are entertained only at the Consular, Passport and Visa (CPV) Division, Patiala House, New Delhi. However, you may apply at the Passport Office having jurisdiction over your present residential address.
Can anyone else submit my passport application on my behalf?
A:	Under the new system, it is mandatory for all applicants to be physically present at the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) along with Application Print receipt and original documents after submitting application Online.
I want to add my spouse name on my passport. Where can I apply for the same?OR I want to change my existing personal particulars in the passport. Where can I apply for the same?
A:	If you want to add spouse name in your passport or for change in personal particulars you need to apply online for re-issue of passport to the concerned PSK.
What are the key changes with respect to passport application submission at District Passport Cells/?
A:	Only fresh passport applications will now be accepted at District Passport Cells. Therefore, following cases will NOT be handled at District Passport Cells:Re-issue Case Tatkaal Case Complex Case Click here to view list of complex casesMiscellaneous services (e.g. PoliceClearance Certificate (PCC), Background Verification for GEP) Online
Can I apply online for re-issue of passport?
A:	Yes
Can I apply for Police Clearance Certificate application online?
Yes
How can I apply for a passport online?ORWhat are the things I need to take care of while applying for a passport online? (Checklist)
A:	To apply online, you need to be a registered user. When you apply online, you also have an option to download an e-Form that you can fill offline and upload later on. For downloading the form you need not be a registered user, but for uploading the form you need to register yourself. To apply for a passport online , please click on "Home". You can also upload the documents required for applying the passport. You should have the scanned copy of the documents.
What kinds of applications are handled at a Passport Office?
A:	Following types of applications are processed at a Passport Office (PO):Special purpose passports for visiting countries like Israel/TaiwanDiplomatic and Official PassportsProcessing of District Passport Cell applications and cases sent by respective Passport Seva Kendra Processing of complex cases escalated by Assistant Passport Officer at Passport Seva Kendra to Regional Passport Officer at Passport Office
sI want to apply for a fresh passport. Can I apply for the passport at a Passport Office as it is near to my place?
A:	No, you cannot apply for a passport at a Passport Office. You need to visit Passport Seva Kendra to submit your passport application
